adding openobserve details for fluentbit output (#1472)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: pipeline/outputs/openobserve.md

---

> description: Send logs to OpenObserve using Fluent Bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: OpenObserve
description: Send logs to OpenObserve using Fluent Bit
```

---

# OpenObserve

> The OpenObserve output plugin allows to ingest your logs into [OpenObserve](https://openobserve.ai/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the OpenObserve output plugin to ingest logs into [OpenObserve](https://openobserve.ai/).
```

> Before you begin, you need a [OpenObserve account](https://cloud.openobserve.ai/), a HTTP_User and HTTP_Passwd that will be available under Ingestion of your O2 platform. Alternatively, you can achieve this with various installation types as mentioned in this [documentation](https://openobserve.ai/docs/quickstart/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, you need an [OpenObserve account](https://cloud.openobserve.ai/), an
`HTTP_User`, and an `HTTP_Passwd`. You can find these fields under **Ingestion** in
OpenObserve Cloud. Alternatively, you can achieve this with various installation
types as mentioned in the
[OpenObserve documentation](https://openobserve.ai/docs/quickstart/)
```

## Configuration Parameters

| Key             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                          |
| --------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | -------------------------------- |

> | Host            | _Required_ - The OpenObserve server where you are sending your logs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `localhost` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Host            | Required. The OpenObserve server where you are sending logs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | `localhost` |
```

> | TLS             | _Required_ - Enable end-to-end security using TLS. Set to `on` to enable TLS communication with OpenObserve.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | `on`                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| TLS             | Required: Enable end-to-end security using TLS. Set to `on` to enable TLS communication with OpenObserve.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | `on`                            |
```

> | compress        | _Recommended_ - Compresses the payload in GZIP format. OpenObserve supports and recommends setting this to `gzip` for optimized log ingestion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| compress        | Recommended: Compresses the payload in GZIP format. OpenObserve supports and recommends setting this to `gzip` for optimized log ingestion.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |    _none_                   |
```

> | HTTP_User          | _Required_ - Username for HTTP authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| HTTP_User          | Required: Username for HTTP authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                 _none_          |
```

> | HTTP_Passwd          | _Required_ - Password for HTTP authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| HTTP_Passwd          | Required: Password for HTTP authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |     _none_                             |
```

> | URI        | _Required_ - The API path where the logs will be sent.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |         `/api/default/default/_json`                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| URI        | Required: The API path used to send logs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |         `/api/default/default/_json`                         |
```

> | Format        | _Required_ - The format of the log payload. OpenObserve expects json.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |         `json`                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Format        | Required: The format of the log payload. OpenObserve expects JSON.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |         `json`                         |
```

> | json_date_key   | _Optional_ The JSON key used for timestamps in the logs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `timestamp`                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| json_date_key   | Optional: The JSON key used for timestamps in the logs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `timestamp`                      |
```

> | json_date_format   | _Optional_ The format of the date in logs. OpenObserve supports iso8601.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `iso8601`                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| json_date_format   | Optional: The format of the date in logs. OpenObserve supports ISO 8601.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | `iso8601`                      |
```

> | include_tag_key | If enabled, a tag is appended to output. The key name is used `tag_key` property.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `false`                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| include_tag_key | If `true`, a tag is appended to the output. The key name is used in the `tag_key` property.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | `false`                          |
```

### Configuration File

> Get started quickly with this configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this configuration file to get started:
```

```
[OUTPUT]
  Name http
  Match *
  URI /api/default/default/_json
  Host localhost
  Port 5080

>   tls Off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  tls on
```

Reviewer: `on` is the default value, so let's include that here.

  Format json

>   Json_date_key    _timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Json_date_key    timestamp
```

  Json_date_format iso8601

>   HTTP_User <your_http_user>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HTTP_User <YOUR_HTTP_USER>
```

>   HTTP_Passwd <your_http_password>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HTTP_Passwd <YOUR_HTTP_PASSWORD>
```
